1. what are the 3 fundamentals of AWS pricing?
ans: a. Pay as you go
     b. save when you commit
     c. pay less by using more
	
	a.pay as you go: Pay-as-you-go allows you to easily adapt to changing 
	  business needs without overcommitting budgets and improving your 
	  responsiveness to changes. With a pay-as-you-go model, you can adapt 
	  your business depending on need and not on forecasts, reducing the risk of 
	  overprovisioning or missing capacity.
	
	b.save when you commit
	  For AWS Compute and AWS Machine Learning, Savings Plans offer savings 
	  over On-Demand in exchange for a commitment to use a specific amount 
	  (measured in $/hour) of an AWS service or a category of services, 
	  for a one- or three-year period.

	c.Pay less by using more
	  With AWS, you can get volume based discounts and realize important 
	  savings as your usage increases. For services such as S3, pricing is 
	  tiered, meaning the more you use, the less you pay per GB. AWS also gives you 
	  options to acquire services that help you address your business needs.

2. what are regional and global services?
ans:

3. what is region?
ans: AWS has the concept of a Region, which is a physical location around the world 
     where we cluster data centers. We call each group of logical data centers an 
     Availability Zone. Each AWS Region consists of multiple, isolated, and physically 
     separate AZs within a geographic area.

4. what is Availablity zone?
ans: Availability zones (AZs) are isolated locations within data center regions from which
     public cloud services originate and operate. Regions are geographic locations in which 
     public cloud service providers' data centers reside.
     Availability zones are highly available data centers within each AWS region. A region 
     represents a separate geographic area. Each availability zone has independent power, 
     cooling and networking.

5. what is points of presence?
ans: The POPs are used for both AWS CloudFront to deliver content to end users at high speeds, 
     and Lambda@Edge to run Lambda functions with the lowest possible latency. As of April 2020,
     there are 216 Points of Presence in 84 cities across 42 countries.

6. what are the diffrent types of cloud based on service and deployement?
ans: 	a.Public cloud
	b.Private cloud
	c.Hybrid cloud
	d.Community cloud
	
a. Public Cloud
	Public cloud infrastructure is entirely owned, managed, and maintained off-site via the internet 
	by third-party service providers such as Amazon, Microsoft, or Google. With a public cloud, service
	providers rent out their computing resources, like servers, storage, and applications, to various 
	organizations, ensuring availability to anyone who wants to use or purchase them.

	Public clouds are less expensive than private clouds since businesses don’t bear the costs of purchasing, 
	managing, and maintaining the on-prem infrastructure. All of these tasks are the responsibility of the 
	cloud service provider. Public cloud models typically use a flexible "pay as you grow" pricing model, 
	making it an optimal solution for small to mid-sized businesses (SMBs).

b. Private Cloud
	Private cloud infrastructure is dedicated to a single organization or enterprise. The software and applications in
	a private cloud are usually proprietary platforms tailored to meet the needs of the business. Private cloud 
	architecture can be hosted and managed either internally by on-site staff or externally by a third-party service provider. 
	It’s generally more costly for business owners to support their private cloud as they are responsible for setup and maintenance.

	The main advantages of private clouds include greater control, privacy, and security. Private clouds are typically gated by a 
	sophisticated firewall with access only granted to authorized personnel.

c. Hybrid Cloud
	As the name suggests, hybrid cloud infrastructure combines elements from private and public deployments, offering the robust 
	security of a private cloud and the additional storage and cost-effectiveness of a public cloud. However, infrastructure is 
	complex and requires highly technical expertise to install, manage, and maintain due to the evolving mix of public and private clouds.

	A hybrid cloud is an optimal deployment option for industries that store sensitive information, such as healthcare, government, 
	and finance. These regulated industries are often required to keep certain types of sensitive data on-premises while allowing less 
	sensitive data to be stored in the cloud. With a hybrid cloud, companies have the flexibility of the public cloud for less regulated 
	tasks and the security of the private cloud to ensure regulatory compliance.

d. Community Cloud
	Community clouds are shared by enterprises with common operational and regulatory concerns, such as trade associations, non-profits, 
	and government agencies. A community cloud is a suitable deployment option for organizations that need a cost-effective way to collaborate 
	on joint projects, applications, or research. Community clouds provide a cheaper alternative to private clouds since the operating and 
	maintenance costs are divided among the cloud tenants. This model is hosted either on-site or off-site and owned by one or more organizations 
	in the community or by a cloud services provider.

7. Explain about global infrastructure?
ans: The AWS Global Cloud Infrastructure is the most secure, extensive, and reliable cloud platform, offering over 200 fully featured services 
     from data centers globally. Whether you need to deploy your application workloads across the globe in a single click, or you want to build 
     and deploy specific applications closer to your end-users with single-digit millisecond latency, AWS provides you the cloud infrastructure 
     where and when you need it.

     With millions of active customers and tens of thousands of partners globally, AWS has the largest and most dynamic ecosystem. 
     Customers across virtually every industry and of every size, including start-ups, enterprises, and public sector organizations, 
     are running every imaginable use case on AWS.
     The AWS Cloud spans 84 Availability Zones within 26 geographic regions around the world, with announced plans for 24 more 
     Availability Zones and 8 more AWS Regions in Australia, Canada, India, Israel, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland, and United Arab Emirates (UAE).

	26 Launched Regions
	Each with multiple Availability Zones (AZ’s)
	84 Availability Zones

	17 Local Zones

	28 Wavelength Zones
	For ultralow latency applications
	8 Announced Regions

	32 Announced Local Zones 

	2x More Regions  

	With multiple AZ’s than the next largest cloud provider
	245 Countries and Territories Served
	108 Direct Connect Locations
	410+ Points of Presence

	400+ Edge Locations and 13 Regional Edge Caches
	Magic Quadrant for Cloud Infrastructure as a Service, Worldwide (2021)